---
title: "Getting started"
description: "Hit the ground running."
date: "Mar 22 2024"
tags: ["Govardhan"]
slug: "getting-started"
---

## 👋 Hii, I am lakshman shankar.

I am a **Full stack developer** deeply immersed in web technologies, and my coding journey began amidst the COVID lockdown in `2020`. Starting with **Python**, I later ventured into web technologies during my second year of college. However, it was my fascination with **Operating Systems** and **Cloud Computing** that truly intrigued me, revealing the intricacies of deploying and maintaining apps at scale.


With a solid understanding of programming languages like **Typescript**, **Python**, and **C++**, my programming skills and proficiency in data structures and algorithms have helped me tackle over `450 LeetCode problems`. This experience has provided me with diverse perspectives and refined my problem-solving skills.


 started using Linux in January `2022`; It's almost `2.5 years` into that and I enjoyed everything about Linux. I began with vim and moved to neovim, and my [dotfiles](https://github.com/Lakshmanshankar/dotfiles) repository had grown a lot since then. I love the awesome command line tools which make my developer workflow a breeze to work with. And I love **dark color schemes with gradient texts**; you can see them in all my works.


Currently, I'm focused on enhancing my skills in **web technologies** and deepening my understanding of data structures. For further details, here's a link to my [resume](https://lakshmanshankar.vercel.app/resume.pdf)

<kbd>CTRL</kbd> + <kbd>ALT</kbd> + <kbd>Delete</kbd>